<!-- Do NOT edit this file directly. It is compiled from pages in the "source" directory. -->
# <a class="anchor-from-text" id="basic-moves"></a>Basic Moves

### <a class="anchor-from-text" id="hack-and-slash"></a>Hack and Slash

When you **attack an enemy in melee**, roll+WS. On a 10+, you deal your damage to the enemy and avoid their attack. At your option, you may choose to roll an extra damage die but expose yourself to the enemy's attack. On a 7-9, you deal your damage to the enemy and the enemy makes an attack against you.

The extra damage die you roll will be the largest size that you are already rolling. If your attack deals 1d8+1d6 damage, you would roll 2d8+1d6.

### <a class="anchor-from-text" id="fire-for-effect"></a>Fire for Effect

When you **fire your ranged weapon to deal damage**, roll+BS and expend a use of your weapon. On a 10+ deal your damage. At your option you may expend another use of your weapon to add +1d4 damage. On a 7-9 you deal your damage and choose one:

*   You take what you can get, deal -1d6 damage
*   You need to take some more shots, expend another use of your weapon
*   You have to place yourself or a teammate in danger, the GM will tell you how

Fire for Effect is your go-to move when a character is shooting to kill. It covers drawing, cocking, aiming, and shooting your weapon. Firing your weapon doesn't mean squeezing off a single shot, it means shooting for a few seconds. That can mean a single shot, or a whole flurry of them. Either way, it's a single use of the weapon. Leave the exact number of shots to the fiction and let the uses dictate when they run low.

If you're using a weapon that doesn't have enough uses you can't take the bonus damage on the 10+ or the "expend another use" option on a 7-9.

### <a class="anchor-from-text" id="reload"></a>Reload

When you **take a moment to reload your weapon** reset your weapon's uses and expend 1 ammo.

Once a character has expended all the uses of their weapon they need to reload. This isn't assumed, the players have to explicitly say they take a moment to reload. How long it takes is up to the GM, and reloading certainly counts as a prime opportunity for a GM move.

### <a class="anchor-from-text" id="suppressing-fire"></a>Suppressing Fire

When you **fire a weapon at one or more targets to suppress them**, roll+BS and expend 1 use of your weapon. On a hit the target's morale is tested: they might dive for cover, falter, or attempt to flee. Your allies gain +1 forward against them. On a 10+ you also deal your damage.

If you're shooting at the enemy for almost any effect other than to hit something, you're likely using suppressing fire. You might still land a few shots, but what you're trying to do is keep heads down so your allies can take advantage.

### <a class="anchor-from-text" id="throw-grenade"></a>Throw Grenade

When you **prime and throw a grenade**, roll+S. On a 10+, the grenade lands where you aimed. On a 7-9 choose one:

*   The grenade lands where you aimed but you have to move to make the throw placing you or someone else in danger as described by the GM
*   The grenade only lands near where you aimed, for a reduced or unexpected effect as described by the GM

Pulling out a grenade and chucking it can all be done in one motion, but only if you have a grenade on hand. As a GM, the 7-9 results give you a lot of opportunity for interesting hard moves, don't be afraid to use them. A wily cultist might see an Acolyte fumbling for a grenade as a perfect opportunity to charge them. A grenade might fall short and deal half damage, or it might catch an ally in its blast. Explosives can also change the landscape of the battlefield by creating firewalls, caving in walls, making craters, or destroying cover.

### <a class="anchor-from-text" id="defy-danger"></a>Defy Danger

When you act despite an imminent threat or suffer a calamity, say how you deal with it and roll. If you do it

*   by using skill in melee attacks, +WS
*   by using skill with ranged weapons, +BS
*   by powering through, +S
*   by getting out of the way or acting fast, +Ag
*   by enduring, +T
*   with quick thinking, +Int
*   using charm and social grace, +Fel
*   through mental fortitude, +WS
*   noticing something, +Per

On a 10+, you do what you set out to, the threat doesn’t come to bear. On a 7–9, you stumble, hesitate, or flinch: the GM will offer you a worse outcome, hard bargain, or ugly choice.

### <a class="anchor-from-text" id="defend"></a>Defend

When you **stand in defense of a person, item, or location** under attack, roll+T. On a 10+, hold 3\. On a 7–9, hold 1\. So long as you stand in defense, when you or the thing you defend is attacked you may spend hold, 1 for 1, to choose an option:

*   Redirect an attack from the thing you defend to yourself
*   Halve the attack's effect or damage
*   Open up the attacker to an ally giving that ally +1 forward against the attacker

### <a class="anchor-from-text" id="discern-realities"></a>Discern Realities

When you closely study a situation or person, roll+Wis. On a 10+, ask the GM 3 questions from the list below. On a 7–9, ask 1.

Either way, take +1 forward when acting on the answers.

*   What happened here recently?
*   What is about to happen?
*   What should I be on the lookout for?
*   What here is useful or valuable to me?
*   Who’s really in control here?
*   What here is not what it appears to be?

### <a class="anchor-from-text" id="spout-common-lore"></a>Spout Common Lore

When you **consult your accumulated knowledge about a non-forbidden topic**, roll+Int. On a 10+, the GM will tell you something interesting and useful about the subject relevant to your situation. On a 7–9, the GM will only tell you something interesting—it’s on you to make it useful. The GM might ask you “How do you know this?” Tell them the truth, now.

### <a class="anchor-from-text" id="basic-tech-use"></a>Basic Tech-Use

When you attempt to **use an advanced piece of technology, or repair a simple piece,** roll+Int. On a 10+ you do what you set out to do and choose one. On a 7-9 the same, but choose two:

*   It takes longer than you'd planned
*   You have to cannibalize some equipment on hand, the GM will tell you what
*   You get a lesser result than you intended, the GM will tell you what

### <a class="anchor-from-text" id="aid-or-interfere"></a>Aid or Interfere

When you **help or hinder someone**, describe how and roll+bond with them. On a 10+ add +2 or -2 to their roll, your choice. On a 7-9 add +1 or -1 to their roll, your choice, but you open yourself up to danger, retribution, or cost.