<!-- Do NOT edit this file directly. It is compiled from pages in the "source" directory. -->
# <a class="anchor-from-text" id="seeker"></a>Seeker

Good at finding info.

## <a class="anchor-from-text" id="stats"></a>Stats

Your starting Max Wounds is 6\. If your Toughness is positive, add that as well.

Your load is 10+S.

## <a class="anchor-from-text" id="look"></a>Look

Choose one of each:

*   Distrusting eyes, kind eyes, tired eyes
*   Helmeted head, military cut, or bald
*   Plain clothes, worn outfit, or uniform
*   Thin body, fit body, flabby body

## <a class="anchor-from-text" id="drive"></a>Drive

## <a class="anchor-from-text" id="starting-moves"></a>Starting Moves

You get these moves.

### <a class="anchor-from-text" id="confessor"></a>Confessor

When you interrogate someone to extract information from them roll+Fel. On a 7-9 they answer your questions and you choose 2\. On a 10+ choose 1 instead.

*   They only answer one question
*   Their answers are vague
*   They resist for longer than you'd planned before they begin to cooperate
*   They attract the attention of those nearby

### <a class="anchor-from-text" id="detective"></a>Detective

When you get a 7+ using [Discern Realities](https://github.com/Vindexus/PoweredByHeresy/blob/master/game/github/basicmoves.md#discern-realities) on a crime scene you also find a clue of value to you. On a 10+ this clue gives you a hunch that the GM will describe.

### <a class="anchor-from-text" id="take-them-alive"></a>Take Them Alive

If you successfully hit a vulnerable opponent and attempt to disable them instead of dealing damage. roll+undefined. On a 7+ they are incapacitated. On a 7-9 choose 1:

*   They get one last attack in
*   They will need some time to recover to be of any use

## <a class="anchor-from-text" id="advanced-moves"></a>Advanced Moves

Whenever you level up you can take one of the following moves, or one of the moves from the general Advanced Moves list.

### <a class="anchor-from-text" id="this-ones-mine"></a>This One's Mine

When you call out a target as your own, you deal +2d4 ongoing to them. This lasts until an ally attacks them, you attack someone else, or the target is defeated. While this is active you deal -4 damage to other targets and your allies deal -2 damage to your named target.

### <a class="anchor-from-text" id="torturer"></a>Torturer

When you roll a 7+ with [Confessor](https://github.com/Vindexus/PoweredByHeresy/blob/master/game/github/basicmoves.md#confessor) you may choose to select zero options from the list. If you do so, roll+Int – on a 6- your captive dies.