<!-- Do NOT edit this file directly. It is compiled from pages in the "source" directory. -->
# <a class="anchor-from-text" id="tactician"></a>Tactician

You see the battlefield more clearly than most, and can use this insight to help you and your allies.

## <a class="anchor-from-text" id="stats"></a>Stats

Your starting Max Wounds is 6\. If your Toughness is positive, add that as well.

Your load is 10+S.

## <a class="anchor-from-text" id="look"></a>Look

Choose one of each:

*   Blank eyes, fiery eyes, kind eyes
*   Military cut, messy hair, headband, helmet
*   Worn uniform, utilitarian clothes, rags
*   Lean body, hulking body, lithe body

## <a class="anchor-from-text" id="drive"></a>Drive

### <a class="anchor-from-text" id="destructive"></a>Destructive

Blow something up or dismember a foe.

### <a class="anchor-from-text" id="superior-position"></a>Superior Position

Gain an advantage due to better choice of terrain or surroundings.

### <a class="anchor-from-text" id="weapon-master"></a>Weapon Master

Use a new weapon in combat or begin training with one.

### <a class="anchor-from-text" id="honor-killer"></a>Honor Killer

Challenge a foe to 1v1 combat and defeat them.

## <a class="anchor-from-text" id="starting-moves"></a>Starting Moves

You get these moves.

### <a class="anchor-from-text" id="tactical-advantage"></a>Tactical Advantage

Each battle is different and requires a different approach. At the start of each battle, decide which tactic you are actively employing.

*   Defensive: As long as you don't attempt to gain ground, you gain +1 to all [Defy Danger](https://github.com/Vindexus/PoweredByHeresy/blob/master/game/github/basicmoves.md#defy-danger) rolls
*   Reactive: Whenever you are attacked, you can immediately respond and take +1 forward
*   Reckless: You deal an extra damage die, but your defense is reduced by 1
*   Precise: While you remain focused on a single target, you inflict +1 wounds when you damage them

If you change tactics you lose the benefit of the one you had chosen.

### <a class="anchor-from-text" id="lifting-the-fog"></a>Lifting the Fog

The fog of war can mask any battle. As you witness it unfold, **whenever you or someone you have a bond with takes damage** gain 1 Insight (Max 2). During the battle you may spend 1 Insight to:

*   Add +1 to one of your rolls before your roll
*   Reroll a damage roll (yours or an ally's)

At the end of the battle your Insight resets to 0.

### <a class="anchor-from-text" id="sense-weakness"></a>Sense Weakness

When you **[Discern Realities](https://github.com/Vindexus/PoweredByHeresy/blob/master/game/github/basicmoves.md#discern-realities) about a person or being**, you may add the following question to your list of options:

*   What weaknesses do I see?

You may spend 1 Insight to ask this as an extra question.

## <a class="anchor-from-text" id="advanced-moves"></a>Advanced Moves

Whenever you level up you can take one of the following moves, or one of the moves from the general Advanced Moves list.

### <a class="anchor-from-text" id="baptised-by-bullets"></a>Baptised By Bullets

Whenever you run through enemy fire, take +1 forward to [Defy Danger](https://github.com/Vindexus/PoweredByHeresy/blob/master/game/github/basicmoves.md#defy-danger).

### <a class="anchor-from-text" id="fighters-sense"></a>Fighter's Sense

You always start combat with +1 Insight.