<!-- Do NOT edit this file directly. It is compiled from pages in the "source" directory. -->
# <a class="anchor-from-text" id="templar"></a>Templar

You are the embodiment of the Emperor's vengeance and Wrath is your currency.

## <a class="anchor-from-text" id="stats"></a>Stats

Your starting Max Wounds is 5\. If your Toughness is positive, add that as well.

Your load is 8+S.

## <a class="anchor-from-text" id="look"></a>Look

Choose one of each:

## <a class="anchor-from-text" id="drive"></a>Drive

## <a class="anchor-from-text" id="starting-moves"></a>Starting Moves

You get these moves.

### <a class="anchor-from-text" id="wrath-embodied"></a>Wrath Embodied

You are the Emperor's vengeance made manifest and is your currency. The more pure your soul, the more holy power can pass through you. If your soul is immaculate, then you have 3 Wrath (the max).

When you **spend time performing your purifcation ritual** (an uninterrupted hour or so), set your Wrath to the max.

### <a class="anchor-from-text" id="penance"></a>Penance

When you **quickly perform penance**, you suffer 1 wound and gain 1 Wrath. Penance is self punishment, such as tightening a cilice, using a whip or knout, or other forms of mortification of the ﬂesh. This type of brutal penance might be painful, but it's the only way to purify your soul quickly, such as in the midst of a battle.

### <a class="anchor-from-text" id="smite"></a>Smite

When you **roll a 10+ on [Hack and Slash](https://github.com/Vindexus/PoweredByHeresy/blob/master/game/github/basicmoves.md#hack-and-slash) or [Fire for Effect](https://github.com/Vindexus/PoweredByHeresy/blob/master/game/github/basicmoves.md#fire-for-effect)** you may spend 1 Wrath to choose one:

*   Your attack burns with the Emperor's fury, inflict +1 wound
*   Your attack creates an opening, you and your allies take +1 forward against your target

### <a class="anchor-from-text" id="divine-will"></a>Divine Will

When you **use the Emperor's impending vengeance as leverage**, you may roll [Parley](https://github.com/Vindexus/PoweredByHeresy/blob/master/game/github/basicmoves.md#parley) with +Wrath instead of +Fel.

## <a class="anchor-from-text" id="advanced-moves"></a>Advanced Moves

Whenever you level up you can take one of the following moves, or one of the moves from the general Advanced Moves list.

### <a class="anchor-from-text" id="holy-vengeance"></a>Holy Vengeance

When you **kill an enemy that has done you harm**, you gain 1 Wrath.

### <a class="anchor-from-text" id="know-thy-enemy"></a>Know Thy Enemy

Your zeal for exacting the Emperor's wrath has led you to know of some of the Imperium's greatest enemies. You may [Spout Forbidden Lore](https://github.com/Vindexus/PoweredByHeresy/blob/master/game/github/basicmoves.md#spout-forbidden-lore) about known heretics, witches, and traitors.

This class uses text and moves from the Templar class from Grim World.