<!-- Do NOT edit this file directly. It is compiled from pages in the "source" directory. -->
# Warrior

Good at fighting

## Stats

Your starting Max Wounds is +T

Your load is +S.

## Look

Choose one of each:

*   Blank eyes, fiery eyes, kind eyes
*   Military cut, messy hair, headband, helmet
*   Worn uniform, utilitarian clothes, rags
*   Lean body, hulking body, lithe body

## Starting Moves

You get these moves.

### Tactical Advantage

Each battle is different and requires a different approach. At the start of each battle, decide which tactic you are actively employing.

*   Defensive: As long as you don't attempt to gain ground, you gain +1 to all Defy Danger rolls
*   Reactive: Whenever you are attacked, you can immediately respond and take +1 forward
*   Reckless: You deal +1d4 damage and take +1d4 damage
*   Precise: While you remain focused on a single target, you gain +2 piercing against them

If you change tactics you lose the benefit of the one you had chosen.

### Lifting the Fog

The fog of war can mask any battle. As you witness it unfold, **whenever you or someone you have a bond with takes damage** gain 1 (Max 2). During the battle you may spend 1 to:

*   Add +1 to one of your rolls
*   Reroll a damage roll (yours or an ally's)

At the end of the battle your resets to 0.

### Armored

You ignore the Clumsy tag on any armor you wear.

## Advanced Moves

Whenever you level up you can take one of the following moves, or one of the moves from the general advanced moves list.